Parallel Meaning Bank 1.0
============================


Introduction
------------

The Parallel Meaning Bank (PMB) is a parallel corpus of sentences and short texts 
with formal semantic annotations for four languages: English, German, Dutch 
and Italian. The meaning representations are based on Discourse Representation 
Theory (DRT), and combine logical with lexical approaches to linguistic meaning. 
The representations comprise:

* logical symbols (boolean operators and comparison operators)
* non-logical symbols (WordNet synsets and VerbNet roles)

Following DRT, we call the meaning representations Discourse Representation 
Structures (DRSs). The DRSs are provided in the familiar box-like format as 
well as with a flat format (clause notation). The latter format is used for 
evaluation purposes and also contains alignment with the words of the input 
sentence. In contrast to DRT, we adopt a neo-Davidsonian analysis of events, 
using the thematic roles of VerbNet as relations between individual entities, 
and the synsets of WordNet to denote individual concepts.

About this release
----------------

This release is a frozen snapshot of a subset of PMB documents that are marked as gold 
silver or bronze standard in the current development version. The gold folder contains all 
documents that are fully manually checked, while the silver contains documents
that are only partially manually checked. Bronze documents do not have any manual
annotations. WARNING: use silver and bronze documents at your own risk!

The current release comprises examples that are certainly not representative for the entire 
corpus. This is because of the way they were selected: not randomly, but on the basis of 
quality of the semantic analysis. Nevertheless, this selection contains a diverse set of 
semantic phenomena, including: quantification, negation, modal operators, scope, tense, and 
referring expressions.

The current development version itself is made available via a wiki-like Web interface 
called PMB Explorer. Semantic annotation is a very hard task and despite thorough manual 
checking can still contain mistakes. If you find any errors in the annotation, you can 
either let us know (via the website) or, if you feel sure, you can correct them yourself, 
and thus contribute directly to the PMB. To do so or get more information about the 
project, visit http://pmb.let.rug.nl

Directory Layout
----------------

The PMB is partitioned into 100 parts. Each part is identified by a
two-digit number. A part contains up to 10,000 documents. Within a part,
each document is identified by a four-digit number. The ID of a
document consists of the part number, followed by a slash, followed by
the document number, e.g. 00/0030.

pmb-1.0
   data/                               contains the gold and silver data
       gold/                           contains the gold data
           p00/                        contains the gold data for part 00
               d0030/                  contains the files for document 00/0030
               ...                                 (see next section)
               ...
       silver/                         contains the silver data
           p00/                        contains the silver data for part 00
               d0704/                  contains the files for document 00/0704
               ...                                 (see next section)
               ...
   doc/                                contains papers describing the PMB
       ...
   src/
       extract.sh					   script to auotmatically create train/dev/test split	
   README                              this file
   NEWS                                list of major changes between releases
   LICENSE                             license statement


File Formats
------------

Every document directory contains several files with the raw texts and resulting analyses. 
They are all encoded in UTF-8 with Unix-style line endings. Each file starts with a 
two-letter language identifier (ISO-639-1).

 *.met       Meta data about the document, such as language, title, data, source, genre, and
             subcorpus. The format is one key: value pair per line.

 *.raw       The raw text of the document. The standoff annotation (see below) refers to
             character offsets (not byte offsets) within this document.
 *.status    Contains six rows, indicating the status (gold, silver, bronze) of each
             tagging layer (tok, sem, sym, cat, sns, rol). For gold documents the
             status is gold for each layer, for silver there can be differences. You can
             have a more detailed look at the tagging layers here: 
             http://pmb.let.rug.nl/explorer/explore.php

 *.tok.off   Standoff tokenization annotation in a vertical format. It contains one word 
			 token per line. Columns are separated by one space character. They contain, 
			 respectively:
                1. the character offset of the start of the token;
                2. the character offset of the end of the token;
                3. a token ID, consisting of the number of the token within the sentence;
                   (last three digits) and the number of the sentence within the 
                   text (all other digits);
                4. the token itself.

 *.tok.iob   Tokenization in IOB format. It contains one character per line. Columns are 
             separated by one space character. They contain, respectively:
                1. the Unicode code point of the character in decimal notation;
                2. a character tag: T (start of word token), S (start of sentence), 
                   I (inside token) and O (outside token).

 *.drs.xml   Contains the Discourse Representation Structure (DRS) representing the meaning 
             of the text. The formalism used is Discourse Representation Theory (DRT), 
             extended to use neo-Davidsonian events with roles from VerbNet and concepts 
             from WordNet.

 *.drs.box   Contains the DRS in a nice, human-readable box format.

 *.drs.clf   Contains the DRS in clause notation, with word alignments. This is the file 
             type that is used to calculate semantic similarity between DRSs.

Semantic Parsing
------------

For people interested in semantic parsing, we added a script (src/extract.sh) to help
with automatically creating train/dev/splits. This scripts calls a Python file that needs
to run with Python 2. It will create the splits for each language, storing them in exp_data/.
It creates a *.txt.raw file containing the raw sentences, and a *.txt files that contains all
the DRSs in clause format, separated by a white line. 

Simply run the following command from the main release directory:

./src/extract.sh
 
We only extract a dev and test set for the non-English languages, since there is less
gold standard data available for them. For silver and bronze data, we only extract a train set
for each language. The train/dev/split is created on part-level, by using these parts:
	
	
	en:
		train - everything not in part X0 or X1
		dev   - parts X0 (i.e. p00, p10, p20, etc)
		test  - parts X1 (i.e. p01, p11, p21, etc)
	non-en:
		train - none 
		dev   - parts X1, X3, X5, X7 and X9
		test  - parts X0, X2, X4, X6 and X8

Note that these are our suggested splits, to make comparing approaches easier, but you are
free to create different splits if they fit your own needs better.
			

Statistics gold
----------

Number of documents, sentences and tokens per language:

    Documents  Sentences  Tokens 
en  80         80         544    

Number of documents per subcorpus per language:

    SICK 
en  80   

Statistics silver
----------

Number of documents, sentences and tokens per language:

    Documents  Sentences  Tokens 
en  5693       5694       56321  

Number of documents per subcorpus per language:

    SICK 
en  5693 

Statistics bronze
----------

Number of documents, sentences and tokens per language:

    Documents  Sentences  Tokens 
en  301        301        2956   

Number of documents per subcorpus per language:

    SICK 
en  301  


Disclaimer
----------
The creators and annotators of the PMB do not necessarily share all views found in the text.
Indeed, some of the views in the texts of the PMB might be offensive to readers. 
We do think including such texts from the corpus is beneficial for researchers working on hate-speech.

References
----------

We hope you find this release of the PMB useful for your research. If you want to
refer to the PMB in your work please cite the following paper (for your convenience, 
a bibtex entry is provided as well within this release):

 Lasha Abzianidze, Johannes Bjerva, Kilian Evang, Hessel Haagsma, Rik van Noord, 
 Pierre Ludmann, Duc-Duy Nguyen, Johan Bos (2017): The Parallel Meaning Bank: 
 Towards a Multilingual Corpus of Translations Annotated with Compositional 
 Meaning Representations. Proceedings of the 15th Conference of the European 
 Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL), pp 242–247, 
 Valencia, Spain.
     
The Parallel Meaning Bank website is at http://pmb.let.rug.nl.
For contact, use the following email address: johan.bos@rug.nl.
